At the end of 2019, the most recent outbreak of the zoonotic virus of the coronavi-rus family called 2019-nCov was recorded in the Chinese province, Hubei, which, causes atypical and non-specific symptomatology with respiratory, gastrointestinal, lymphatic and nervous system involvement. Of those affected, 5% develop severe disease mediated by inflammatory factors and viremia leading to severe pneumonia, respiratory arrest, septic shock or multiple organ failure, with an estimated mortality rate of 3.4%.
Acute respiratory syndrome induced by coronavirus-2 (COVID-19) has had a great global expansion; since its appearance, the death of more than 6,881,955 people and 676,609,955 infections have been confirmed. In Colombia, the National Institute of Health reports that about 6,369,916 people are confirmed cases and 142,780 have died as of June 7, 2023, the latest cut-off date. 
Although the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and the European Medicines Agency (EMA) early approved the worldwide distribution of biologics from Pfizer-BioNTech, Moderna and later Johnson & Johnson, Sinovac, Oxford-AstraZeneca, these vaccines lacked long-term animal model studies and challenge testing. DNA or mRNA vaccines lead the fight against the occurrence of severe adverse symptoms by COVID-19 with high efficacy rates and play an essential role in preventing contagion and spread.  However, almost all types of vaccines have been reported to be associated with adverse effects. The number of post-vaccination side effects indicate mild and rare or “serious” effects that have been recorded in various databases worldwide. 
Therefore, the purpose of this study was to conduct an exploratory investigation of side effects presented in a sample of individuals (n 435) who received 1-4 doses of the biologics acquired in Colombia and to compare the symptoms with those published by the Ministry of Health and Social Protection in order to determine if there were rare or serious side effects not reported in the national registry databases.
A cross-sectional descriptive observational methodology was used, with a logical research model (IRLM), posing different types of questions with related, unrelated effects and rare or serious adverse symptoms after vaccination that were obtained from records of worldwide databases, These allowed the construction of an ad hoc measurement instrument of 55 items distributed in nine sections with a total of 499 open and closed response options, including pre-existing conditions, mild and infrequent adverse effects after the first, second, third and fourth booster doses. It was designed to be mailed, resolved and finally stored via the LimeSurvey silver-form. The participants of this study were randomly contacted and interviewed personally explaining the objectives of this research.  The study was conducted with students, faculty, administrative staff of the Universidad Distrital Francisco José de Caldas and external volunteers. All were provided with informed consent attached to the form and inclusion and exclusion criteria were applied.
